```{=mediawiki}
{{Character|name=Callie|occupation=ESA Student|affiliation=[[Mabel Martin]] (Presumably)|portrayedby=|debut=[[Episode Thirty-Five: Delirium | Delirium]]|image=CALLIEGIRL.png|imagecaption=art by [https://andromerot.tumblr.com/ andy]|aliases=}}
```
<center>

*Oh god, what if she finds me, what if she hears me, there\'s nowhere
-*\

</center>

\
Callie is a character from the site [What Happened at El
Segundo](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/). The summary on this page
is paraphrased from the
[site](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/april-3rd-2003). For more
specific information, please check there.

## All Appearances {#all_appearances}

Callie was [Mabel Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}\'s
good friend[^1] during her years at [El Segundo
Academy](El_Segundo_Academy "El Segundo Academy"){.wikilink}. Mabel
refers to Calle as being \"constantly worried\" about her. At one point,
Mabel looked at Callie through a hagstone to be sure she was real, which
she was.[^2] On April 3^rd^, 2003, Callie called the Jericho fire
department from El Segundo, saying that \"\[the worker she called
didn\'t\] understand\" and that she \"saw her\... saw all of it.\" As
she panics, she asks the switchboard operator \"what if she finds me,
what if she hears me\...\". It is not clear who \"she\" is, but Callie
was clearly very scared and hung up almost directly after giving the
operator her first name. [Eidolon
García](Eidolon_García "Eidolon García"){.wikilink} wrote in her notes
that, during the time of the fire, there was no registered student at
ESA named Callie, though Lolo knows that several files on the case are
still sealed.[^3]

## Trivia

- Callie is a greek name meaning \"beautiful\".

<!-- -->

- 
- 

<references />

[^1]: <https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/post/659334709010169856/hyperfixation-never-sleeps-and-this-podcast-is-a>

[^2]: [Episode Thirty-Five:
    Delirium](Episode_Thirty-Five:_Delirium "Episode Thirty-Five: Delirium"){.wikilink}

[^3]: <https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/april-3rd-2003>
