In which we all fall down. Featuring: a cacophony of voices.

**Episode description:** *An unlit match is a terrible
thing*.`{{Episode|title=Ashes, Ashes|partOfSeason=7|episodeNumber=44|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=February 11, 2022|nextEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Five: Daddy Issues | Daddy Issues]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, [[Maybell Marten]]|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Three: Seeled | Seeled]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

`<em>`{=html}I was a tear shed / for the ones that died
believing--`</em>`{=html}

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- ***`<u>`{=html}GRAPHIC DEPICTION OF SUICIDE`</u>`{=html}***, abuse,
  arguments, death, unreality, distortion, crying, anxiety attacks,
  panic attacks.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

This episode begins with [ Mabel](Mabel_Martin " Mabel"){.wikilink}
talking to [ Lily](Lily_Martin " Lily"){.wikilink}, who\'s words are
garbled and unclear. Mabel says that the house is more hers than it is
Lily\'s, and screams at her to leave her alone. As a scuffle sounds out,
Mabel screams that Lily will burn, and that \"he\" (presumably [The
King](The_King "The King"){.wikilink}) will burn and kill her.

Cutting off to [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink}, we find her on the
phone with [Violette](Violette "Violette"){.wikilink}, who has not been
answering her calls. She says she\'s been having computer troubles.
Aurora scolds her for it.

Over to [ Anna](Anna_Limón " Anna"){.wikilink}, we find her monologuing
about trying to find Mabel. [ Janet](Janet_Kirk " Janet"){.wikilink} and
[ Lolo](Eidolon_García " Lolo"){.wikilink} are near her, whispering
among themselves about what exactly Anna is doing. Janet offers Anna a
Caprisun and Anna waves her off, asking her about El Segundo. Lolo
explains that it was a residential school for rich girls, filled with
institutional abuse. Janet says it burned for an entire day, but no one
could figure out how the fire started. After discussing what was found
in the [ vice-dean](Maribeth_Parker " vice-dean"){.wikilink}\'s room,
Anna mutters \"girl-ouroboros\" to herself. She explains that that was
one of Mabel\'s nicknames. Janet asks if Mabel is dead or not, and Anna
calls her stupid, which Lolo gets offended at. After they talk about
whether or not Anna\'s alive, Anna breaks down slightly, saying it
doesn\'t matter if she\'s dead or alive; if she\'s here, walking and
talking and being `<em>`{=html}here`</em>`{=html}, that means Mabel can,
in turn, be somewhere.

We cut to Cult 1 and Cult 2\-- [Brandon](Brandon "Brandon"){.wikilink}
and [ Jonathan](Jonathan_Mills " Jonathan"){.wikilink}, respectively\--
when they began to record the King. Brandon asks if Jonathan can believe
they\'re doing this, and Jonathan answers that he believes everything.
Brandon goes to touch a vine in the room, which Jonathan says is
[brugmansia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brugmansia). Brandon says
that it looks like it spells something, but it cuts off before he can
say which particular word it resembles.

We cut off to Mabel, who is stuck somewhere\-- at first a bower, then
the House. She asks why anyone can\'t ever leave her alone, and talks
about the House collapsing inward; she is scared of something looming
around her to \"remake \[her\] until she is fit for purpose\", making
her smaller and having her thank her abusers for hurting her. She begins
to cry, and asks for her father to help her.

We hear a countdown and then cut to Jonathan in the present day. He\'s
speaking to Mabel, saying he had read her file (from when she was [ a
subject](The_Subjects " a subject"){.wikilink}) when he was still in
school. He says that even if he could have, he would not have saved her,
because he was more concerned with following orders. Nonetheless,
Jonathan has read the files of many subjects in an attempt to humanize
them. He says that Aurora Silver thought Mabel was special, and that he
knows he isn\'t\-- he\'s a foot soldier and isn\'t ashamed of it. He
says he would have died if he has been special like Mabel was, and knows
that as a soldier, he has been put to \"ill use.\" We hear him cutting
his own skin, repeating that what he\'s saying isn\'t a confession. He
apologizes to Mabel and begins to break down about what happened to both
her and to Brandon; he says \"This isn\'t a confession. This is an
obituary. `<em>`{=html} Get out.`</em>`{=html}\" before noises of
burning and a stag roaring overwhelm the soundscape. The episode ends.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- The description of this episode ("In which *we* all fall down") is a
  callback to [Temporal
  Snake](Episode_Thirty-Two:_Temporal_Snake "Temporal Snake"){.wikilink}'s
  description ("In which *they* all fall down"). The change from "they"
  to "we" may be a reference to Mabel's status as a former cult subject
  being clear in this season.
- Brugmansia is a member of the same family as nightshade. My wonderful
  plant expert friend Danny will explain more about what this means
  later !!
- "Get out" is also an important line for
  [Thomas](Thomas "Thomas"){.wikilink}.
- We can assume that Mabel's talking about the King when she asks for
  her father to help her, as on the [official
  tumblr](https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/), [Maybell
  Marten](Maybell_Marten "Maybell Marten"){.wikilink} refers to the King
  specifically as her father. Though Thomas has also been referred to as
  Mabel's father (by Anna), the term has never been used for him by
  Mabel herself.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- The exchange between Brandon and Jonathan takes place sometime before
  [Chimera](Episode_Twenty-Five:_Chimera "Chimera"){.wikilink}, as by
  that point the two of them have hooked up and checked their computers.
