In which temporal fabric is folded and refolded. Featuring: something
split, like kindling.

**Episode description:** One story. Many
beginnings.`{{Episode|title=The Past is a Dream of Itself|partOfSeason=7|episodeNumber=42|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=January 14, 2022|nextEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Three: Seeled | Seeled]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Forty-One: A Superfluity | A Superfluity]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

Pocket full of posies, ashes to ashes\--

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Unreality, death, distortion, loud noises, dissasociation, references
  to abuse (physical and emotional), references to starvation/captivity.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

This episode begins with [ Lolo](Eidolon_Garc√≠a " Lolo"){.wikilink}
explaining part of her backstory. When she was eight, she began
experiencing dehabilitating nightmares. Her mother and abuelita took her
to see a man named Doctor Camino, who told her that she\'d never lose
the pain she\'s experiencing, that death has a weakness for her, and
that she\'d spend her entire life chasing ghosts. Lolo remarks that he
wasn\'t wrong about any of it.

We cut to Mabel and Anna, looking at what the King has become (an
\"uninhibited sharp tangle of\... darkness\"). They discuss how they
don\'t know what\'s going on, but Mabel knows that \"something is ill\"
in the Hill. Back with the ghostbusters, Lolo and Janet discuss how
Lolo\'s GPS is broken. They arrive at Lolo\'s gas station, and Anna asks
which world they\'re in. Janet talks about Sally, and Anna says she\'s
asking about before that time\-- Janet asks if she\'s talking about what
happened in the twenties, and Anna asks what she means, at which point
Lolo cuts Janet off, telling her it doesn\'t matter what occurred back
then. Janet ends up asking if Anna is really herself, and Anna explains
that she hasn\'t truly been gone for three years\-- she\'s been stuck in
the weave of that time, explaining that it felt longer than three years.
Janet tells Anna she\'s sorry that that happened to her.

We cut to [Jonathan Mills](Jonathan_Mills "Jonathan Mills"){.wikilink}.
He says that the tape we\'re listening to is a contingency plan, and if
anyone is listening, he may be dead. He renounces loyalty to Aurora
Silver and says that, while he is not a true believer, he has scientific
proof of supernatural occurrences that remind him of \"pathogens\". He
says he has watched these pathogens (presumably something from the Hill)
carve subjects \"up from the inside out.\" He calls Aurora Silver
similar to a political extremist and explains that one of his coworkers,
Brandon, was killed because of a mistake that Jonathan himself made,
despite Brandon\'s loyalty to the cause. Jonathan says he used to
believe Aurora Silver thought he was special, but he knows he was wrong;
and she is now becoming more erratic, making mistakes. He says he\'s
going to wait for something\-- either his own death or a chance to make
all the deaths of the other cultists mean something.

We then hear from [Mabel?](Mabel? "Mabel?"){.wikilink}, who says she is
going to unstitch whoever she\'s speaking to from someone else. The end
of this piece of the episode comes when Mabel? says \"Put on your
dancing shoes. The music is about to become very, very loud.\"

Back with Anna and Mabel, Anna says she\'s found Sally\'s old journal.
After discussing boundaries with Mabel, Mabel asks Anna to tell her what
the journal says. The journal explains that Sally and her brother,
Phillip, knew Luna Thorne when they were children. Phillip died in the
Battle of Midway. Mabel explains that she knew that because she\'d found
his death telegram when she was a teenager, and Sally had locked her up
for it. Anna says she wishes she\'d gotten to kill Sally, and Mabel and
Anna have a brief, enjoyable side about being in love before we return
to the journal. Anna reads that Sally had found out Luna\'s true name.
Mabel interrupts that Luna does not have a true name, but Anna continues
that Sally found a ritual called \"On the Basis of Exchange\". Anna then
asks why Mabel knows that Luna doesn\'t have a true name, and Mabel
rpelies that \"there are too many of us in here\" (\"here\" presumably
being in Luna). Anna keeps going, explaining that Sally used the ritual
to swap claims with Luna. While Luna claimed her freedom, Sally stole
her freedom back and then claimed the power of life and death. Anna says
that Sally wanted to use the power to rebirth Phillip, and Mabel,
shocked, replies \"\...Lily?\"

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- Lily being a clone matches with Becca De La Rosa posting that \"Lily
  still has some secrets of her own to share.\"
- This is Jonathan\'s second monologue. The first takes place in [The
  Consort](Episode_Thirty:_The_Consort "The Consort"){.wikilink}.
- Sally\'s brother has been mentioned briefly before in [Fairy
  Hill](Episode_Five:_Fairy_Hill "Fairy Hill"){.wikilink}.
- 

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- The battle that Phillip died in was a World War II naval battle
  between the United States and Japan.
