In which certain delicate truths become public knowledge.

**Episode description:** Things lost. Things found. Things buried. A
stitch can either open or
close.`{{Episode|title=Seeled|partOfSeason=7|episodeNumber=43|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=January 28, 2022|nextEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Four: Ashes, Ashes | Ashes, Ashes]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Two: The Past is a Dream of Itself | The Past is a Dream of Itself]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

A return to the graveyard.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- **SEVERE AND GRAPHIC DESCRIPTIONS OF CHILD ABUSE,** death, unreality,
  distortion, abusive parental figures, blood, descriptions of
  pregnancy, panic attacks, crying.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

We open with Anna, Lolo, and Janet discussing Mabel. Anna says that she
can\'t find Mabel, and Janet screams that Mabel\'s been dead the whole
time, even though Lolo interrupts her to tell her to stop. Janet
explains that Mabel died; they thought Lily killed her because Lily left
the Martin house covered in so much of Mabel\'s blood that the police
thought there was genuinely no way she could still be alive. Lolo says
they\'ll take Anna to Mabel\'s grave to prove it to her. Janet
(sincerely) asks Anna if Mabel was a friend of hers, and Anna starts
screaming that they have no idea what Mabel is to her.

Cutting back to Anna and Mabel, they discuss Sally\'s journal and read
more of it. Mabel says that the ritual must not have fully worked; if it
did, she\'d be dead and Lily would be alive. Anna reminds her they can
stop reading it whenever she wants, and Mabel tells her to keep going.
Anna mentions the journal being full of weird scribbles, and then the
girls have a kind moment discussing going on a roadtrip. Mabel says that
she never thought she\'d be able to pity Sally or Lily; they discuss
that, though both women were pathetic, they still did horrible things to
an innocent child.

Back with Lolo, Janet, and Anna;, they discuss Mabel\'s expunged
juvenile record. Anna says that she used to be able to feel Mabel
everywhere, and now she can\'t feel her at all. Lolo explains that her
job is to find people like Anna and help them\-- she got the files due
to her job. Janet proudly says she thinks Lolo hacked the files. Anna
asks if Lolo finds many people like her, and Lolo replies that she finds
more than Anna\'d think. Janet asks if that was what happened at [El
Segundo](El_Segundo_Academy "El Segundo"){.wikilink}, and Anna asks what
exactly she means. Janet replies that the school burnt down. After Janet
and Lolo explain why they\'re involved in this (Janet has always liked
ghosts and got dragged in by Lolo, and Lolo got a strange email,
respectively), Anna asks Janet what kind of candy she\'s eating, and
Janet shows her that they\'re candied haws, which Mabel had earlier
mentioned wanting to eat on a road trip.

Back with Anna and Mabel, they read more of Sally\'s journal. It\'s
before Lily was born, and Sally refers to the baby as Phillip. Sally
says that Luna keeps trying to get into the House, and that when she
preformed the ritual, she ate a piece of Luna. Anna whispers \"I\'m
going into the ground for you\" and Mabel begins to panic, asking where
she is. We cut to Mabel, alone, who is talking to Luna about how badly
she has hurt her when she \"threshed \[herself\] into \[Mabel\'s\]
head.\"

We go back to the roadtrip trio, who have arrived at Mabel\'s grave.
Anna kicks it. She asks if Lily went to jail, and Lolo says that she
drove into an overpass and died. She also says it\'s not known if her
death was purposeful.Lolo says that Mabel was not supposed to be in the
house the day she died, nor was Lily supposed to be home. Lily was in a
behavioral center and was sent home early. Mabel had been placed with a
foster family due to the abuse she suffered. No one knows why she was in
the Martin house that day. Lolo gives Anna the files of Mabel\'s
hospital stays, nothing several abusive pieces of her childhood
(including a broken wrist, broken ribs, and malnutrition). Anna reads
out loud the report on her death. It says that a police officer found
Sally force-feeding an eleven year old Mabel a \"combination of oatmeal,
dirt, and broken glass.\" Sally went to jail and Mabel went to the
hospital. Anna echos a line from[ King in the
Labyrinth](Episode_Seven:_King_in_the_Labyrinth " King in the Labyrinth"){.wikilink},
where Mabel said \"and then she put glass in my food and killed me!\"

Anna begins to panic, saying that everything Mabel told her actually
happened, and that \"she\'s been *here*\". The episode ends.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- \"And then she put glass in my food and killed me!\" is one of the
  first lines Mabel has during her debut in [King in the
  Labyrinth](Episode_Seven:_King_in_the_Labyrinth "King in the Labyrinth"){.wikilink}.
- It can be presumed that the graveyard the trio visit is similar to the
  one in both
  [Pilgrimage](Episode_Eleven:_Pilgrimage "Pilgrimage"){.wikilink} and
  [La
  Peregrinación](Episode_Nineteen:_La_Peregrinación "La Peregrinación"){.wikilink}.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- Hidden in the transcript is the link to [What Happened At
  ESA](http://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/), an extra content site.
- The candy Janet eats in the car is the candied haws Mabel had
  mentioned earlier in the episode.
