In which a certain kind of clarity is reached. Featuring: many different
threads, unraveling.

**Episode description:** Who is the daughter of the king under the hill?
`{{Episode|title=Revelation|partOfSeason=6|episodeNumber=38|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=January 18, 2019|nextEpisode=[[Episode Thirty-Nine: Reverie | Reverie]]|performed by=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Thirty-Seven: Pas De Deux | Pas De Deux]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

Everything goes to hell.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Screaming, distortion, panic/anxiety attacks, unreality, injury, abuse
  mentions and flashbacks, pain, disassociation.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

After [Aconite](Aconite "Aconite"){.wikilink} crashes the party and
claims her right to the throne, [Anna](Anna_Limón "Anna"){.wikilink} and
[Mabel](Mabel_Martin "Mabel"){.wikilink} freak out, Mabel insisting she
must have been lying about her parentage. Anna stops her by saying that
they need to `<em>`{=html}go`</em>`{=html}.

We cut over to [Janet](Janet_Kirk "Janet"){.wikilink}, who explains to
her audience that her tape recorder was stolen from her hands and
dragged away, leading Janet into a gigantic room with a triple window
covered in ivy. The ivy is spread out in strange patterns, along with
datura pods everywhere. She whispers \"oh my god\--\" before the entire
thing cuts away, back to the girls.

Anna tries to fix Mabel\'s arm, while Mabel continues to panic. The two
of them discuss Aconite\'s possible parentage, Mabel insisting that Luna
could not be her mother because the [King](The_King "King"){.wikilink}
and [Luna](Luna_Thorne "Luna"){.wikilink}\'s relationship was very
business-like, with no fondness between them. The King\'s only hope\--
his only joy in the whole of himself, which Mabel saw during the fight
in [Temporal
Snake](Episode_Thirty-Two:_Temporal_Snake "Temporal Snake"){.wikilink}\--
was Mabel herself.

They discuss how the King never tried to hurt Mabel on purpose, and Anna
apologizes for taking Mabel out of the hill without her permission.
Mabel has a brief moment of confusion over someone caring about her
autonomy, before Luna stops in, being dramatic and strutting out after
saying she doesn\'t envy the girls for what is to come.

The episode cuts briefly to a cult tape recording of a subject referred
to as 1138. An infant wails before Aurora Silver asks if that\'s what
1138 expects to affect her, and the baby\'s screaming changes to
terrifying laughter. 1138 says \"Fiat justitia et ruat caelum\" in a
distorted voice before it cuts to Aconite, having a panic attack, trying
to remind herself that the King is her father. She repeats \"I know who
I am\" to herself several times.

Mabel and Anna decide that they have to somehow best Aconite in order to
gain the throne back properly. Anna asks if Mabel is jealous of Aconite,
because the King was her only father figure. They have a good strong
discussion on their feelings; afterward, Mabel accidentally finds the
tape recordings Anna finds in Reactionary Politics or Primogeniture
I\'ll check in a minute. Mabel hears the recordings of herself when she
was subject 7825, and begins to panic. She explains that Aurora Silver
used to inflict the King of the Underhill on normal people; calming
herself down, she hears a different tape begin to play, and laughs,
realizing the House was trying to help.\
==Continuity== **`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains
spoilers for later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own
risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- The tape Mabel hears at the end is of Aconite\-- or, in this case,
  [Subject 6163](Ekaterina_Roskova "Subject 6163"){.wikilink}\-- in one
  of Aurora Silver\'s tests.
- The King being Mabel\'s adopted father is relevant to the overall way
  Luna treats Mabel along with the reason Mabel was able to win in
  Temporal Snake.
- Janet presumably finds the window on the third floor that Mabel warned
  Anna not to look in during [King in the
  Labyrinth.](Episode_Seven:_King_in_the_Labyrinth "King in the Labyrinth."){.wikilink}

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- Fiat justitia ruat caelum\-- properly written as \"[fīat jūstitia ruat
  cælum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_justitia_ruat_caelum)\" is a
  Latin phrase which means \"Let justice be done though the heavens
  fall.\" It refers to the belief that justice should be and must be
  served regardless of any consequence.
- Subject 1138 is presumably a shapeshifter, which is why they can
  switch their voice. This, however, is not confirmed.
- 1138, run through the A1Z26 cypher, is
  \"[Aach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aach_(toponymy)).\" Apparently
  that is a German term for running water. It may be a reach, but hey,
  who knows!
