```{=mediawiki}
{{Episode|title=A Superfluity|partOfSeason=7|episodeNumber=41|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=December 31, 2021|nextEpisode=[[Episode Forty-Two: The Past is a Dream of Itself | The Past is a Dream of Itself]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Forty: The Deterritorialization Of Time | The Deterritorialization Of Time]]|image=Road trip trio!.png|imagecaption=art by [https://www.instagram.com/yellingpasta/ caelen]|director=}}
```
In which the mirage is revealed. Featuring: a girl, a mirror.

**Episode description:** New year, new you.

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

An unhappy return to form.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Distortion, mentions of death, arguments, screaming, unreality,
  mentions of mental hospitals, doomed thinking.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

We begin to episode hearing a slightly familar voicemail\-- It\'s
Mabel\'s, but she ends it with \"If I'm not in my dorm room I'm probably
in the forest, either dead or alive. Leave a message after the beep!\"
It can be assumed it\'s from her time at [El Segundo
Academy](El_Segundo_Academy "El Segundo Academy"){.wikilink}, seeing as
this season has a lot of focus upon the cult.

We then cut to [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink}, talking to a woman
named [Violette](Violette "Violette"){.wikilink} about recordings that
[Jonathan](Jonathan_Mills "Jonathan"){.wikilink} made. The recordings
are lound wailing\-- Aurora believes them to be a message. We then meet
[Eidolon García](Eidolon_García "Eidolon García"){.wikilink}, swearing
at her phone as she drives to [the
House](the_House "the House"){.wikilink} and tries to call [
Janet](Janet_Kirk " Janet"){.wikilink}\'s voicemail. Lolo reaches the
middle of nowhere\-- it seems the house has disappeared\-- and finds
Janet trying to convince [ Anna](Anna_Limón " Anna"){.wikilink} to stay
and wait for an ambulance. Lolo and Janet begin to fight, Lolo saying
that she told Janet not to go to the House alone. Janet interuppts to
say that she found Anna, and Lolo insists that that isn\'t Anna. The
three of them start to leave when Anna begins to scream, asking Janet
why she cut her out of the wall, and then presumably does some Weird
Magic Shit. Janet screams at Lolo to help.

We cut to Anna and [Mabel](Mabel_Martin "Mabel"){.wikilink}; Mabel is
infodumping about rat heaven, and explains that heaven is great, so long
as they can leave. Veratrine shows up and talks about there being more
holes than usual in the Hill; she says it\'s caused by Anna. Back with
the ghostbusters\-- Janet and Lolo, with Anna in the back seat \-- the
girls fight with each other. Janet asks Lolo if she put the cops in
stasis from Alien. Lolo insists that Janet has no idea what she\'s done
and Anna mutters \"I\'m going into the ground for you.\"

Then the show cuts back to Anna and Veratrine arguing, with Mabel as an
unwilling mediator. Vera says that her and Luna have broken up. Mabel
insists that she\'s going to tag Luna back for something she\'s done. We
have one last return to the ghostbusters; Lolo tells a story about a
rigged card game. Janet and Lolo tell Anna they\'re taking her somewhere
safe and Anna gets mad, saying that the House was safe for her. Anna
asks if Lolo\'s a witch, and Lolo responds that she\'s a fixer. Anna
asks where Mabel is, and the question breaks the world around them as
Anna gets out of the car.

Lastly, we hear from a voice labelled on the transcript as \"MABEL?\";
she talks of a girl who cut a rib out of herself to make the world,
referencing Adam and Eve; the episode ends with
[Mabel?](Mabel? "Mabel?"){.wikilink} saying \"I saw a girl thresh god
out of her belly.\"

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- This episode marks the first appearance of [Eidolon
  García](Eidolon_García "Eidolon García"){.wikilink} ever, along with
  being the first time [Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink} has
  been in the show since [Temporal
  Snake](Episode_Thirty-Two:_Temporal_Snake "Temporal Snake"){.wikilink}.
- This episode is the first canonical episode of Mabel since the start
  of the Unending Hiatus that began on February 1^st^, 2019.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- Eidolon\'s murmuring of \"contenerla, atala, protégela\" translates to
  \"contain her, bind her, protect her\" in English.
- Janet\'s voicemail, endearingly, feels like an early 90\'s ghost
  cartoon.
