In which the wheel turns. Featuring: an insidious remembering.

**Episode description:** The past is never what we believe it to be.

```{=mediawiki}
{{Episode|title=The Deterritorialization Of Time|partOfSeason=6|episodeNumber=40|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=February 1, 2019|nextEpisode=[[Episode Forty-One: A Superfluity | A Superfluity]]|performed by=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Thirty-Nine: Reverie | Reverie]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}
```
## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

The sins of the father\...

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Torture, unreality, disassociation, screaming, distortion, abuse,
  anxiety/panic attacks, death.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

Back in the usual universe, [Mabel](Mabel_Martin "Mabel"){.wikilink}
talks about a dream. [Anna](Anna_Lim√≥n "Anna"){.wikilink} was playing
with her hair, the two of them in the Green Parlor, before Anna became
afraid of Mabel and pulled away with \"stars running out of her eyes.\"
Then we cut to Anna and Mabel. Anna promises that their plan will work,
and they kiss, Anna telling Mabel happily to stay with her forever. They
then go see [Aconite](Aconite "Aconite"){.wikilink} and before she can
speak, they play her the recording from Aurora Silver. It\'s Aurora
Silver telling a young and scared Aconite to tell her her name,
torturing her when Aconite can\'t remember. The tape recorder cuts to
Aconite repeating her [
prophecy](Aconite's_Prophecy " prophecy"){.wikilink} as [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink} laughs. Back in the
present, Mabel explains to Aconite that she was wrong about herself, and
she isn\'t the King\'s daughter at all. They tell her she can stay in
the Hill, as if she leaves, Aurora will kill her. Anna very gently asks
Aconite if she wants to know her true history.

Anna\-- and, later, Aconite herself\-- then fill in the gaps of
Aconite\'s backstory. Her real name is [Ekaterina
Roskova](Ekaterina_Roskova "Ekaterina Roskova"){.wikilink}, and she\'s a
Russian immigrant who went to school and was indoctrinated in the cult
at [Saint Olga\'s](Saint_Olga's_Preparatory "Saint Olga's"){.wikilink}.
Her mother was a teacher and her dad was a political dissident, and
after her dad died, her mom sent her to America, where she arrived at
the school and met Aurora Silver. The cult tortured her and she
eventually died after summoning a god of strange colors and fractured
fragments. The god took her down to the underhill when her human form
died; it then gave her its name. Though Ekaterina is cut off before she
can say what that was, the little the audience can hear makes it sound
like the god\'s name is \"Anna\".

Ekaterina gives the throne back to Anna and Mabel and Anna discuss their
marriage. They kiss and the audio fades into distortion, which then cuts
to [Janet](Janet_Kirk "Janet"){.wikilink}, finding a strange woman in
the garden of the Martin House. The last thing we learn is that the
woman is a miraculously alive Anna, conspicuously missing her wife.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- This is the return to the \"natural\" canon of *Mabel* after
  [Reverie](Episode_Thirty-Nine:_Reverie "Reverie"){.wikilink} took us
  into a different world.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- JANET ANNA BUDDYCOP ROAD TRIP FILM *WHEN* BECCA DE LA ROSA!!! \[Edit,
  March 2022: Now, apparently. Featuring Miss Garcia!\]
- Janet likes Reese\'s Pieces.
