In which the house eats all whole. Featuring: something lost, something
found, one secret among many.

**Episode description:** A [girl](Mabel_Martin "girl"){.wikilink} inside
a girl inside a [house](The_House "house"){.wikilink} inside a hill. Or
is it the other way around?
`{{Episode|title=Matryoshka|partOfSeason=4|episodeNumber=28|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=November 20, 2017|nextEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Nine: Aurora Silver is Willing to Wait | Aurora Silver is Willing to Wait]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Seven: La Sua Ultima Trasformazione | La Sua Ultima Trasformazione]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

The House eats its beloved girl.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Beeping, distortion, loud noises, gore, screaming, arguments,
  unreality.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

Mabel begins to monologue while stuck inside the House\'s inner
workings, talking about following the thread. In the normal House,
[Anna](Anna_Lim√≥n "Anna"){.wikilink} and
[Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink} discuss something
Veratrine insists Anna is hiding. Back in the cult area, the [Unknown
Voices](The_Unknown_Voices "Unknown Voices"){.wikilink} freak out over
losing the recording of the [King\'s](The_King "King's"){.wikilink}
voice.

Mabel continues monologuing, saying that she\'s sure she can find her
way back out, and then the audio cuts to Luna, discussing motherhood,
clearly speaking about Veratrine. It swaps to Veratrine, talking about
[Luna](Luna_Thorne "Luna"){.wikilink}. This continues, and then cuts to
Anna and Veratrine, who speak for a few seconds before we cut back to
the Voices, who have now definitely lost the recording. Mabel, still
stuck, calls the House \"[Sally](Sally_Martin "Sally"){.wikilink}\" and
fights with it. Mabel hears a repeating echo\-- \"she said I\'m going
into the ground for you\", Anna\'s first line of the entire show.

Anna realizes if she rips open her own skin, the House will open to pull
Mabel out, and does so. Vera and Anna yank Mabel out; Anna and Mabel
both worry over each other for a few minutes. Anna promises she\'ll give
the House anything it asks for so long as it helps them; the last piece
of audio is Anna monologuing about the multiplicity of her relationship
with Mabel before ending on a Shakespeare quote: *\"Do you know what the
next line is, Mabel? After 'paste and cover for our bones'? It goes like
this:* for God's sake let us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of
the death of kings. *\[LAUGHS\] This story will be a lot of things, but
never that.\"*

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- *Matryoshka* is a turning point in the series\-- it\'s the first time
  Vera and Luna realize they\'re in love with each other.
- The Shakespeare referenced is the second half of a line Anna
  originally reads in
  [Datura](Episode_Four:_Datura "Datura"){.wikilink}.
- The multiplicity angle is presumably a small reference to Infinity
  Mirror\'s upcoming storyline.

\

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- There\'s morse code hidden throughout points of this episode: it
  translates to \"DID YOU EAT ME LIKE A SEED? / I MUST HAVE DREAMED YOU,
  GOD-OF-ME. / YOU OBSESS MY THOUGHTS. / SWOOPING LIKE A GREAT BLACKBIRD
  / MATRYOSHKA GIRL, DOUBLE DEVOUR.\" (as translated by Jam of the
  underhill server! \<3)
