**Episode description:** [Mabel](Mabel_Martin "Mabel"){.wikilink}
goes\...*somewhere*.
`{{Episode|title=La Peregrinación|partOfSeason=3|episodeNumber=19|writer=[[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=June 19, 2017|nextEpisode=[[Episode Twenty: Acting Out | Acting Out]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Eighteen: Unusual Hungers | Unusual Hungers]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

In which the present eats the past. Featuring: several terrible
discoveries.

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

Mabel heads to the graveyard to attempt to contact the people who
[Anna](Anna_Limón "Anna"){.wikilink} works for.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Unreality, manipulation, screaming.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

\
Mabel decides to make a deal with the House in order to go to the
graveyard\-- she promises to always come back to it, and in return it
appears to let her leave. She goes wandering down to the graveyard,
getting stopped by a strange man and scaring him away.

She ends up at Sally\'s grave, talks to Anna about how she feels about
being back in the land above, and compares the journey to Anna\'s own
trip in
[Pilgrimage](Episode_Eleven:_Pilgrimage "Pilgrimage"){.wikilink}. She
sees Anna\'s heart (???) on the back of Sally\'s grave (???) and calls
it beautiful.

Afterward, she asks the woman who works in the cemetery to use her
phone; using the phone from the outside, rather than the phone in the
House, allows her to call the King\'s County Home Help association to
ask about Anna. They say that Anna has. come right back to work after a
brief wave of absence, which leads Mabel to realize Anna\'s been
replaced by a [changeling](Veratrine "changeling"){.wikilink}.

When she hangs up on the company, she goes back to Sally\'s grave and
realizes the world around her looks flat and empty. She then realizes,
horrified, that *she hadn\'t left the House at all*\-- she\'s still
inside it. The entire graveyard is a facade the House made to keep her
inside.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- Mabel\'s journey, as mentioned, is a direct parallel to Anna\'s in
  [Pilgrimage](Episode_Eleven:_Pilgrimage "Pilgrimage"){.wikilink}. \"La
  Peregrinación\" literally translates to \"the pilgrimage\".
- The piece of code hidden in the transcript from this episode is
  \"**share**.\"

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- Mabel\'s fake name, Nadezhda Stark, means \"hope\" and
  \"firm/unyielding\". It\'s Slavic.
- Mabel says her \"siblings\" (the Court) gave her a flower bracelet
  that she wears to remember them. It can be assumed that she\'s
  referring to a flower that\'s physically growing out of her wrist.
