In which three little rabbits run, run, run. Featuring: chaos, an
ungainly escape, a consort in fetters, a less-than-triumphant return,
yet another disappearance.

**Episode description:** There is the white hart. There is the hunter.
`{{Episode|title=La Sua Ultima Trasformazione|partOfSeason=4|episodeNumber=27|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=November 13, 2017|nextEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Eight: Matryoshka | Matryoshka]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Six: Danse Macabre | Danse Macabre]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

The girls run after the fiasco at the ball.\
====**Trigger Warnings**====

- Choking, distortion, screaming, crying, panic attacks, mentions of
  abuse, captivity, anxiety attacks.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

The miscreants run out of the ball, chased by the angered Court; it
becomes clear that [Anna](Anna_LimÃ³n "Anna"){.wikilink} failed in
challenging the [King](The_King "King"){.wikilink}. Meanwhile, the
[Unknown Voices](The_Unknown_Voices "Unknown Voices"){.wikilink} keep
their recording the Hill, realizing that they\'d managed to record the
King\'s voice. The girls escape the faeries and argue for a while while
[Mabel](Mabel_Martin "Mabel"){.wikilink} attempts to care for Anna\'s
injuries\-- [Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink} explains that
[Luna](Luna_Thorne "Luna"){.wikilink}\'s been somehow broken by the
King, and if the consort is bending to his will, absolutely no one is
safe in the Court\-- especially not them. They decide, after some loud
objections from Mabel, to run back to the House.

Vera promptly gets eaten by the House, and Anna and Mabel yank her back
out. They make sure she\'s okay and Mabel has a panic attack; after
everyone calms down slightly, Mabel explains that they should head to
her room, the only place in the House she feels any form of control
over. They head to Mabel\'s bedroom\-- it\'s not the place Anna was told
was her room, but instead shoved away in the attic, with bars laid over
the windows after an escape attempt Mabel made at age six.

After a few minutes of rest, the house eats Mabel. Anna tries to pull
her out while Vera despairs in the background, to which Anna chokes her
out again. Vera tells Anna she\'s acting like she owns Mabel and then
tells Anna that she knows what Anna did before she was sent to the
Martin house.

\> \"VERATRINE: Whose arm \[GLITCH\] is this house, Anna? How far does
your influence stretch? \[DISTORTION\] *Who are you, really?*\"

</ul>

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- The room Anna hid in when missing Mabel in earlier seasons wasn\'t
  Mabel\'s bedroom at all.
- Veratrine gets slightly closer to both girls here, though her progress
  with Anna is rather immediately set back by the last scene.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- When the House eats Mabel, a child can be heard crying.
