**Welcome to the `{{SITENAME}}`{=mediawiki}**!![art by [kaylee
rowena](https://kayleerowena.tumblr.com/).](PAGING_MABEL_MARTIN_.jpeg "art by kaylee rowena."){width="541"
height="541"}Mabel is a new audio drama podcast about ghosts, strange
houses, stranger occurrences, and missed connections, according to the
[official twitter](https://twitter.com/podcastmabel). It is written by
[Becca De La Rosa](Becca_De_La_Rosa "Becca De La Rosa"){.wikilink} and
[Maybell Marten](Maybell_Marten "Maybell Marten"){.wikilink}. It follows
[Anna Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink}, a nurse, trying to get
into contact with [Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}, a missing person. Some
important trigger warnings include, but are not limited to, **abuse,
suicide, medical malpractice, unreality/disassociation, loud
distortion/noises,** and **self-harm**. Be safe in your listening.

It currently has seven seasons (one of which being [a
mini-story](Infinity_Mirror "a mini-story"){.wikilink}). Season eight is
slated to be out **soon**. A brief plot summary of the story can be
found [here](Plot_Summary "here"){.wikilink}. Summaries of each episode
can be found [on this page.](Episodes "on this page."){.wikilink} Bonus
content released for free across social media platforms can be found
[here](Bonus_Content "here"){.wikilink}. The creators\' website can be
found [here](https://mabelpodcast.com/). A full web archive of every
episode, including Infinity Mirror\'s, can be found
[here](https://archive.org/details/podcast_mabel_1160860118).

Find the cast and crew of Mabel listed
[here](Cast_and_Crew "here"){.wikilink}, and this wiki\'s contributors
listed [here](Wiki_Contributors "here"){.wikilink}.
