In which we encounter our own reflections. Featuring: a new voice, a new
place, an old situation.

**Episode description:** Mabel\'s back for season five! Remember that
big competition we held over the break? You don\'t? Let us jog your
memory.
`{{Episode|title=Tressa|partOfSeason=5|episodeNumber=IM-1|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=???|nextEpisode=[[Infinity Mirror Part Two: From the Walls | From the Walls]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Thirty-Two: Temporal Snake | Temporal Snake]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

A new sacrifice arrives in the [Manor By The
Sea](The_House "Manor By The Sea"){.wikilink}.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Distortion, static, glitching, unreality, poison, mention of death.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

The episode begins with [Becca De La
Rosa](Becca_De_La_Rosa "Becca De La Rosa"){.wikilink} and [Mabel
Martin](Maybell_Marten "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink} announcing a
competition they ran, in which one listener would be randomly selected
to stay overnight at the house which inspired the show. In Infinity
Mirror\'s canon, the house was referred to as belonging to Becca\'s
grandmother.

Next, we hear from the winner of the competition and the main character
of the season: [Tressa
Davies](Tressa_Davies "Tressa Davies"){.wikilink}. She seems incredibly
nervous, but explains the rules of the competition: she has to record
the night she stays in the house, and she has a list of topics she needs
to talk about. The first two things on the list are to tell the audience
about herself and to head upstairs and to look in a. certain room before
describing what she sees. As she\'s heading upstairs, she says the
following: she\'s from Ithaca, New York, is a college dropout who
formerly studied medieval history, and she has cats. She has no idea
what she wants to do with her life. As she walks up the stairs, she
explains that she has a condition called Nemaline Myopathy, so she might
take a while to get up the stairs due to her difficulty with mobility.

In order to have something to talk about while she goes up the stairs,
she goes to the third question on the instruction seat, which asks about
a time in childhood she\'d understood true fear. She talks about a time
when she was six\-- she found a yew tree and met a big black bird who
offered her some berries from the tree. She ate them, realized she was
going to die (every part of the yew tree, discounting the red covering
of the seeds, is poisonous), but her mother found her and got her to a
hospital. She survived.

She reaches the top of the stairs and finds a typewriter, which
unscrolls a paper so she can see that it reads "A BLACK-EYED BIRD WITH A
MOUTHFUL OF BERRIES TRIED TO SING HER DOWN UNDER THE GROUND."

The episode ends.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- This is not Tressa\'s first appearance. She can be heard in the walls
  of the House in [Aurora Silver is Willing to
  Wait](Episode_Twenty-Nine:_Aurora_Silver_is_Willing_to_Wait "Aurora Silver is Willing to Wait"){.wikilink}.
- Black birds have been used in reference to [Anna
  Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink} and [Lily
  Martin](Lily_Martin "Lily Martin"){.wikilink}.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- \"Becca\" and \"Mabel\" are both trapping Tressa in a very
  [familiar](Episode_Eight:_Freeze "familiar"){.wikilink} way.
