```{=mediawiki}
{{Character|name=Luna Thorne|image=LUNA TIME.jpg|imagecaption=art by [https://twitter.com/loganblueXC loganblueXC.]|aliases=Luna-Moth <br>Girl in the Mirror <br>Hare (or Rabbit) of the Moon <br>Tamed Hare <br>Silver-Star (by [[Veratrine]])|relatives=[[Veratrine]] (Creation / Girlfriend) <br>[[Mabel Martin]] (Reflection) <br>[[Sally Martin]] (Ex-friend) <br>[[The King]] (Ruler)|affiliation=[[The King]] (formerly)
[[Veratrine]]|portrayedby=[[Maybell Marten]]|species=????????|debut=Episode 26: Danse Macabre|occupation=Consort to the King (Formerly)}}
```
<center>

*Is that what it's like, to be a mother? Is that what it's like to be in
love?*\

</center>

\
Luna Thorne is a secondary antagonist (amongst other things) in *Mabel*.
Her voice actress is never credited, though it can be assumed she is
played by [Maybell Marten](Maybell_Marten "Maybell Marten"){.wikilink}.

## Season One {#season_one}

Luna Thorne is many things, and none of them are simple to summarize.
One concrete fact is that Luna is the girl in [Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}\'s mirror; her face is
scarred on the side opposite to where Mabel\'s is. They spoke often when
Mabel was a child, until an incident when Mabel was bitten by a fox; she
and Luna then began fighting, to the point where Mabel would either
cover or break every mirror in the [House](The_House "House"){.wikilink}
in order to avoid seeing Luna.

Around 2016, [Anna Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink} discovers
a box of letters from Luna in [Sally
Martin](Sally_Martin "Sally Martin"){.wikilink}\'s attic. Each letter is
sealed with a kiss. When Sally is taken to the hospital, she tells Anna
she had tried to save Luna, years before. Anna later speculates that
Luna was the \"hare of the moon\" and the woman who had \"bad, bad
fortune\" in the various writings she had found throughout [The
House](The_House "The House"){.wikilink}. In [The
Freeze](Episode_Eight:_Freeze "The Freeze"){.wikilink}, Luna comes to
the House to take Anna down under the hill.

## Season Two {#season_two}

Anna says that when she was brought into the Underhill she was not able
to look Luna in the eye. We also learn that Luna was the consort of [the
King](the_King "the King"){.wikilink}; she is commonly referred to as
his pet in story canon. Mabel again mentions breaking the mirrors in
order to hide from Luna again in *[Killing the
Moon](Episode_Fifteen:_Killing_the_Moon "Killing the Moon"){.wikilink}*.

## Seasons Three & Four {#seasons_three_four}

In *Unusual Hungers*, Mabel tells Anna the story of Luna; she was, at
some point, created (as the moon) in order to (complicatedly?) combat
and feed the darkness. At some point, Luna and Sally met and became
close. Sally did not truly understand Luna, however, and at some point,
Sally\-- overwhelmed by the thought of leaving her entire life behind\--
ran from Luna and married her [husband](Esau "husband"){.wikilink}.
Sally thus broke her promise to save Luna, and left Luna to rot in the
Underhill.

Within season three, Luna creates
[Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink} to take Anna\'s place in
the upper world. When Anna, Mabel, and Veratrine travel to the Court,
they find Luna kneeling at the foot of the King; Veratrine, terrified,
explains that she usually spends her time beating at the bars of her
cage. With Luna now as a model inmate, the trio of irreverent miscreants
quickly realize they need to escape back to the House.

Luna and Veratrine have dueling narratives in *Matryoshka*; it is
revealed to the audience at this point that Luna created Vera. She asks
if creating Veratrine is, in two senses, like being a mother or like
being in love. It is also revealed that the King found Luna in a field
of flowers.

Luna and Veratrine have a discussion in *Temporal Snake;* it ends with
the two of them deciding to run away together.

## Season Six {#season_six}

Luna presides over Anna\'s coronation to Kingship; she is the
speaker/preist who has Mabel pledge herself to Anna. Anna and Mabel
discuss Luna\'s and the King\'s relationship, and it is revealed that
they were in no way romantically involved with each other, their
relationship more resembling a business partnership. She broke a
promise, and the King held her to it. That is all.

Luna Thorne is dead; long live Luna Thorne.

## Season Seven {#season_seven}

Veratrine says that Luna has been \"torn apart and torn asunder\". It
can be assumed they\'ve broken up.[^1]

## Trivia

- As Luna\'s partner, [Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink}, is
  written by [Maybell
  Marten](Maybell_Marten "Maybell Marten"){.wikilink}, it can be assumed
  that Luna is written by [Becca De La
  Rosa](Becca_De_La_Rosa "Becca De La Rosa"){.wikilink}. While this has
  never been confirmed, it does explain why Luna\'s monologues resemble
  Anna\'s moreso than Mabel\'s.
- According to [King in the
  Labyrinth](Episode_Seven:_King_in_the_Labyrinth "King in the Labyrinth"){.wikilink}
  and [Reverie](Episode_Thirty-Nine:_Reverie "Reverie"){.wikilink}, Luna
  has scars all over her face.
- Luna, as the girl in Mabel\'s mirror, took the place Anna should have
  had (as usually, the love of the Martin girl\'s life is in their
  mirror. See [Juniper](Juniper "Juniper"){.wikilink}).
- She has some fondness for Mabel, as is clear in season six.

[^1]: [Episode Forty-One: A
    Superfluity](Episode_Forty-One:_A_Superfluity "Episode Forty-One: A Superfluity"){.wikilink}
