Maribeth Parker is a character from the site [What Happened at El
Segundo](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/). The summary on this page
is paraphrased from her
[page](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/maribeth-parker) on the site.
For more specific information, please check
there.`{{Character|name=Maribeth Parker|occupation=Dean of Students|affiliation=Unknown|portrayedby=|debut=[https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/ What Happened At El Segundo?]|image=Lady mari quite contrary.jpeg|imagecaption=|aliases=Unknown}}`{=mediawiki}

## All Appearances {#all_appearances}

Maribeth Parker was said to have been born in 1968 in Portland, Oregon
by her [El Segundo](El_Segundo_Academy "El Segundo"){.wikilink} file.
According to Eidolon, \"no birth records for a Maribeth Parker exist at
that time or place.\" Despite no records existing for various other
points in her life, Parker was said to have gotten her masters in
psychology from UCLA in 1997, when she would have been about 29 years
old. After the death of the staff psychologist [James
Barbicon](James_Barbicon "James Barbicon"){.wikilink}, Parker took his
spot at ESA. She eventually became the Vice-Dean of Students. She
organized the search party for [Ron
Newman](Ron_Newman "Ron Newman"){.wikilink} in 2002 and was the person
who stayed with the left-behind students during the year\'s winter
break. She disappeared after the fire which burnt El Segundo down on
April 3rd, 2003; during the early hours of it, she refused to let police
into the building after they received a frantic call from a girl calling
herself [Callie](Callie "Callie"){.wikilink}. After her disappearance,
police searched her room and discovered strange items, a list of which
can be found
[here](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/maribeth-parker).

## Trivia

- Two conflicting theories (by two
  [known](https://ekaterinaroskova.tumblr.com/)
  [enemies](https://popeye1357.tumblr.com/)[^1]) place Maribeth as,
  respectively, either [Aurora
  Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink} or [Lily
  Martin](Lily_Martin "Lily Martin"){.wikilink}. Both are known blonde
  alchemists.
- You literally do not understand how long I\'ve waited to write this
  page. Maribeth you drive me bonkers.

<!-- -->

- 
- 

<references />

[^1]: The joke is that ekaterinaroskova is writing this article, and
    popeye1357 is one of their dearest friends.
