With love to Grace for reviewing this page.\
![art by
[mellifics](https://twitter.com/mellifics).](Mabelbanner.jpeg "art by mellifics."){width="249"
height="249"}

## Seasons 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 {#seasons_1_2_3_4_6_and_7}

\[Where\'s season five? Check
[here.](Infinity_Mirror "here."){.wikilink}\]

A home help worker named [Anna
Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink} goes to live in a creepy old
[house](The_House "house"){.wikilink} to work for an elderly lady named
[Sally Martin](Sally_Martin "Sally Martin"){.wikilink}. One day, Anna
finds a box filled with letters in the attic. When Sally sees it, she
begins to scream the words \"I\'m going into the ground for you.\"
Curious and looking for answers, Anna begins to contact Sally\'s only
living relative: her missing granddaughter, [Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}. Through several
treasure hunts, Anna learns that the letters are from [Luna
Thorne](Luna_Thorne "Luna Thorne"){.wikilink}, a citizen of Fairy
Hill\-- an underworld-like area under the Martin Place. She also learns
that Mabel has been trapped there by the ruler of the Hill, who is known
only as [the King](the_King "the King"){.wikilink}.

Sally ends up being taken to the garden by a faery and left to die of
hypothermia. Anna finds her just before she dies and brings her to the
hospital. Anna asks Sally what\'s going on with the letters at the
hospital, but Sally isn\'t able to answer. When Anna goes back to the
Martin House, she is taken into the hill by Luna Thorne and meets Mabel
for the first time. She falls head-over-heels in love with her and,
after returning to the real world and realizing Sally is now dead,
decides there\'s nothing left for her in the real world. Thus, she
decides to drink poison to open a door into the Hill and swap her place
with Mabel (after receiving advice from Mabel\'s long-dead father,
[Thomas](Thomas "Thomas"){.wikilink}). Mabel ends up in the Martin
House, while Anna\-- now dead\-- is trapped in the hill.

Mabel tries to get back to Anna, which is complicated somewhat by Luna
creating a clone of Anna to take her real-world place. Mabel kills the
clone and makes a deal with the House to get back into the Hill, and
gets back to Anna. Anna, Mabel, and the reborn clone\-- now calling
herself [Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink}\-- decide to kill
the King in order to take his place and become the rulers of the hill.
They pull it off as a cult (led by a woman named [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink}, who is trying to
capture the King) chases them down. Just as Anna wins the fight against
the King, a cultist named [Brandon](Brandon "Brandon"){.wikilink}
arrives and shoots himself after repeating Sally\'s line\-- \"I\'m going
into the ground for you.\" The bullet richochets off of him and hits
Mabel\'s arm.

This leaves Anna dealing with several crises: Mabel is dying due to the
bullet, Anna has to be coronated to become the true king of the hill
even as the entire Faery Court chases her down, *and* a woman who
believes herself to be the Old King\'s daughter is trying to steal
Anna\'s throne. It turns out this woman, Aconite, is actually a cultist
with amnesia due to the trauma she experienced. Anna saves Mabel and
helps Aconite before being coronated, becoming the King of the
Underhill. Mabel becomes her consort.

Just as they\'re about to get their happy ending, a paranormal
investigator named [Janet Kirk](Janet_Kirk "Janet Kirk"){.wikilink} runs
into the Martin House and pulls Anna back into the real world. Anna,
Janet, and Janet\'s friend
[Eidolon](Eidolon_García "Eidolon"){.wikilink} (who chases ghosts) are
currently on a road trip trying to figure out the secrets of Janet and
Eidolon\'s world\-- which is not Anna\'s original world, seeing as Mabel
is dead in this one\-- while also avoiding the cult. Mabel\'s current
wherabouts are unknown.
