```{=mediawiki}
{{Character|name=Anna Limón|image=Smallgodofthehauntedhouse.jpg|imagecaption=art by [https://psrj.tumblr.com/ psrj.]|aliases=King Anna<br>  

Saint Anna<br> Nurse<br> Tyrant<br> Small God of the Haunted House<br> Girl Half-Dead <br> Alpha Bitch <br> Mi Reina (only by [[Mabel Martin]])<br> Butcherbird<br>Half–Dead Girl<br>
Fatherless, Motherless Girl<br>
Girl Without End<br>
Lovely king-elect (by [[Luna Thorne]])|relatives=[[Monica Jenkins]] (Sister)<br> [[Aaron Jenkins]] (Nephew)<br> [[Jack Madrigal]] (Uncle)<br> [[Mabel Martin]] (Soulmate)|affiliation=[[Mabel Martin|Mabel Martin]]|debut=[[Episode One: The Letters | The Letters]]|portrayedby=Becca De La Rosa|occupation=Nurse (Formerly)<br> Live-in Carer (Formerly)<br> King of the Underhill}}
```
<center>

*This is you, undiminished. Look at you.*\

</center>

\
Anna Limón is played by [Becca De La
Rosa](Becca_De_La_Rosa "Becca De La Rosa"){.wikilink}. She is one of the
two main protagonists of *Mabel,* and is the main character for the
first two seasons.

## Season One {#season_one}

Anna works as a live-in carer for [Sally
Martin](Sally_Martin "Sally Martin"){.wikilink}, starting somewhere
around June of 2016. During this time, she finds a box of letters in the
attic of the Martin home, and upon Sally\'s terrified reaction to it,
she continuously attempts to call one [Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}, Sally\'s
granddaughter.[^1] Mabel never picks up, but Anna continues to call her,
telling her about her life and her time as Mabel\'s grandmother\'s
carer. When the voicemail box on Mabel\'s phone is full, Anna tries
calling again, only for it to be mysteriously emptied.[^2] Now aware
that Mabel is not dead, and can in fact hear her, Anna is reinvigorated
to continue calling, telling Mabel more and more of the day-to-day
goings-on in the Martin household.

Anna eventually tells Mabel about Sally\'s struggles. She speaks of
their daily routine and then tells Mabel about a dream that she had,
where she was stuck in a mall with another woman with a red mouth. The
woman mouthed a word at her\-- she thinks it might have been *penumbra*
or *autumnal*. It is later revealed to have been *datura*[^3].

Far too curious for her own good, Anna decides to attempt to open a
letter, bringing her phone with her so Mabel can be made into an
accomplice. As Anna opens one of the letters, she hears Sally fall, and
hangs up the phone.

The next day, Anna meets and speaks to the[ man in the
street](Thomas " man in the street"){.wikilink} for the first time, who
asks her the same thing three times and mouths at her to get out of the
house[^4]. She also tells Mabel that Sally is fine\-- she fell out of
bed before Anna had time to read the letters. However, Anna did see two
things; a return address to \'Fairy Hill,\' and a name on the envelope:
\'[Luna Thorne.](Luna_Thorne "Luna Thorne."){.wikilink}\'

Anna calls Mabel the next day and tells her that she\'s begun
researching in the library, trying to find the encyclopedia description
of datura. She finds an Encyclopedia Britannica, but when she reaches
the section datura should be in, she finds the pages ripped out. The
pages have been carved out to hold an EP record. The label is missing,
but written on it is \"[hold with the
hare](Hold_With_the_Hare,_Run_With_the_Hounds "hold with the hare"){.wikilink}.\"
When she plays the record, a blue bead falls out of the record player.
It\'s from a doll\'s dress, and when Anna finds the doll, she finds a
[riddle](The_First_Riddle "riddle"){.wikilink} tucked in her skirts[^5].

As Anna begins to have strange dreams[^6], she begins to wonder if Sally
lies to her. When visiting the Martin garden, she finds a wrecked old
sign that reads *Fairy Hill*[^7]*.* She goes back to the mushroom ring
and finds them uprooted, as though they were bleeding. Anna thinks about
quitting and finds that, try as she might, she cannot make herself
leave.

The next time Anna calls Mabel, she talks to her about people who had
disappeared from King\'s County; her uncle
[Jack](Jack_Madrigal "Jack"){.wikilink} and Mabel\'s mother,
[Lily](Lily_Martin "Lily"){.wikilink}. As she\'s talking, she realizes
she has to go wake Sally up. When she gets to Sally\'s room, however,
she\'s missing. Anna eventually finds Sally in the garden, wrapped in
rose thorns and freezing cold, and takes her to the hospital. As Sally
lies half-delirious, she tells Anna that she\'d tried to save Luna
Thorne.[^8]

Anna gets trapped inside the House\'s spell, stuck in an empty world
with no way to contact the outside. The season ends with Luna Thorne
bringing her down to the Hill to see Mabel.

## Season Two {#season_two}

We hear nothing from Anna in the first episode of the new season, but
her sister [Mona](Monica_Jenkins "Mona"){.wikilink} calls her several
times. She never responds. She is reported missing by Mona about a week
after she disappears.

In the season\'s second episode, Anna returns to the Martin house,
talking to the walls as if they are Mabel. When she asks Mabel to make
noise, the lights buzz, suggesting that Mabel is stuck inside the house
itself. She tells Mabel that she was only gone for about an afternoon,
but everyone else believes she was missing for days. Anna speaks about
being brought down into the Underhill, where she met Mabel for the first
time. She then gets a call from the hospital staff, who tells her that
Sally had passed away while she was under the Hill. Anna and Mabel
discuss Sally\'s death, before Mabel begins to make the lights in the
house buzz uncontrollably. Anna asks if it\'s \"him,\" and when Mabel
confirms it, she tells Mabel a story about her nephew,
[Aaron](Aaron_Jenkins "Aaron"){.wikilink}, to calm her down. She then
asks Mabel to stay alive in the Underhill until she\'s able to get her
out[^9].

Anna goes to visit Sally\'s grave and then to a hospital, where she
finds out Sally was visited by a man wearing a coat with silver hunting
dogs on it before she died. She gets angry at this point, saying that
he\-- that is, [the King](the_King "the King"){.wikilink} of the
Underhill\-- couldn\'t even let Sally die in peace[^10]. She opens one
of Luna\'s letters\-- all of which say YOU PROMISED\-- and realizes that
Sally abandoned Luna to the underhill.[^11]

As Anna tries to figure out what to do, the visitor from episode three
comes back to the house to speak to Anna. It\'s revealed that his name
is [Thomas](Thomas "Thomas"){.wikilink}, he\'s Mabel\'s father, and he
has been lost for a very long time\-- stuck in a loop of the last day he
was truly alive. He tells Anna \"Hay una puerta; necesitas descubrirlo\"
which translates roughly to \"There is a door; you need to find it \[or
find out\].\" When Anna tells Mabel this, she stops responding using the
lights.[^12]

Anna finds out she\'s been left the entire Martin estate by Sally.
Afterwards, she finds a strange recipe book and creates a potion made
from a page that reads \"to open doors.\" She drinks the potion\-- made
entirely of poison\-- and the episode ends with her falling to the
floor, presumably dead.[^13]

The next time we hear from Anna, she is rambling about the story of
Orpheus. We learn that she had tried to get Mabel out of the Underworld
but had not turned around \-- just as the story of Orpheus and Eurydice
had warned against \-- and accidentally left Mabel behind. She goes
through a series of doors and solves several riddles, eventually finding
Mabel again. She swaps their places\-- Mabel being sent to the Martin
house and Anna being left under the hill.[^14]

## Season Three {#season_three}

At some point within this season, part of Anna (her hair, presumably) is
torn out to create the changeling who would later remake herself as
[Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink}.

When she finally does return[^15], she calls Mabel and parrots the first
phone call she ever sent to her. She speaks about learning to be unkind
as she rots under the hill and gets very, very angry at Mabel, who she
is sure cannot hear her, before talking about how they\'re literally
integral to each other. The author is breaking the formal tone of this
wiki to say: Anna, that is *super gay*.

Mabel makes a deal with the House and brings Anna back to the \'real
world,\' where they finally get to kiss after Anna pushes Mabel against
a wall. After they talk and argue for some time, and while attempting to
run from the King, Anna orders the House to keep them both safe and let
them go. This makes the two of them realize Anna has control over the
laws of matter in the Martin home, and can also control Mabel herself.
At some point during this time, Anna\'s hand is set on fire, leaving her
with a skeleton-style hand, commonly called her \"fist of bone.\"

Mabel and Anna make the mutual decision to take down the King, planning
to kill him and take his place.[^16]

## Season Four {#season_four}

Anna\'s story is broadcast across news stations throughout the country,
including several conspiracy theory podcasts (such as the Daily Bite &
Spook City). Back in the Underhill, Anna and Mabel are approached by
Anna\'s double, now calling herself
[Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink}. Veratrine tries to turn
Anna against Mabel by telling her that Mabel had killed her, but Anna
explains that she already knew that.

The three girls head into the ball the Court is holding; Anna attempts
to challenge the King, but fails due to getting dtracted by seeing her
long-dead uncle Jack.[^17]

They escape to the House, where Mabel and Veratrine both get eaten;
after pulling them out, they decide to head to Mabel\'s room, as it is
the safest area in the House for the three of them. Mabel gets eaten by
the House again. They save her again.

The girls go on a treasure hunt which leads them to Lily\'s room.
Lily\'s room is completely wrecked, and they find a datura seed pod
within it, which causes them to believe the cycle of what had occurred
throughout season one is beginning again. Vera makes fun of Mabel and
Anna asks her to provide a single reason why she shouldn\'t just kill
her; Vera asks if Anna wants Mabel to know what a murderer she is.[^18]

Mabel finds writings from when she was a child and realizes the reason
them challenging the King didn\'t work last time was because there was
no ritual involved; they have to challenge him. Anna and Mabel promise
the House that they will return and then go back to the Underhill. After
Anna and Mabel have a fight, Mabel compares Anna to Sally, and Anna, in
an attempt to apologize, explains to Mabel the real reason she came to
the Martin house.[^19]

When Anna was in college, she had visions of another girl, all the time.
She thought she was going insane, and she cut the connection to the
other girl\-- who was, of course, Mabel. The cutting of the cord, so to
speak, left Anna feeling numb to the world until she arrived at the
House. Mabel has Anna promise to never do that again, and Anna explains
that all she wants is to be with Mabel. Mabel says that, because there
aren\'t any secrets between them, she wants to stay in the Underhill
rather than going back to the human world. They both apologize to each
other and hug (or possibly kiss?) before Mabel says they\'re going to go
gut a tyrant.[^20]

They go to challenge the King and Anna gets possessed by him.[^21] When
she\'s let go, Mabel gets her to a safe place and they talk about it.
Vera comes back in perhaps the greatest line in the entire show, and
Anna and Mabel attempt to comfort her before going off to challenge the
King for the final time. Anna names Mabel as her champion. ![episode 32,
temporal
snake.](VERA_I_LOVE_YOU.png "episode 32, temporal snake."){width="384"
height="384"}

Anna wins after some [Absolutely Buckwild
Challenging](Episode_Thirty-Two:_Temporal_Snake "Absolutely Buckwild Challenging"){.wikilink}
and frees Mabel of her bonds. They tell each other they love each other
before a boy named Brandon walks into the room of the House they are in
and shoots Mabel, and then himself.[^22]\
== Season Six == Anna first appears attempting to get Mabel to let her
look at her bullet wound. Mabel, in the midst of what seems like a panic
attack, does not let her, but Anna eventually manages to dig it out,
telling Mabel secrets in order to presumably keep her distracted. Mabel
eventually faints and Anna holds her while trying to wake her up. Anna
wraps Mabel\'s wound in her shirt and sphagnum moss and the bullet burns
her when she attempts to pick it up. The House brings her a box of SD
cards, which are from Aurora Silver\'s collection.[^23]

Mabel wakes up and chugs some silver water, and they have a small
discussion before falling asleep.

The House puts them in the attic, which is filled with locusts. Mabel
tells Anna she was poisoned by the bullet and then refuses to say
anything else on the matter, causing Anna to become frustrated and
attempt to leave the room. After a minute, the girls have an actual
discussion about their emotions. Mabel tells Anna Sally put her in the
attic as a child, and she ate the locusts to avoid starving. Anna tells
Mabel she wants to know everything about her, even the most boring
parts, and Mabel takes that to mean Anna believes the abuse she went
through as a child was boring. Anna retorts that she\'d never said that,
and after a brief fight, the dead body of the boy with the gun arrives
in the attic, turning into a snake.[^24]

Anna drags Mabel to a safe place and solves several riddles to realize
Mabel\'s having an allergic reaction to the iron in the bullet. She cuts
out the bullet and Mabel wakes up before Mabel tells Anna they have to
go to her coronation to become the King of the Hill.

[Aconite](Ekaterina_Roskova "Aconite"){.wikilink} challenges Anna for
the throne, and Anna and Mabel use the tapes they have to prove to her
that she is not the King\'s daughter, and was instead tortured until she
believed she was to escape from the abuse she was suffering.

After Anna is officially crowned, there is a time skip. [Janet
Kirk](Janet_Kirk "Janet Kirk"){.wikilink} finds her, half-starved, three
years after she disappears under the hill.[^25]

## Season Seven {#season_seven}

Anna is pulled out of the House\'s walls by Janet Kirk; Janet\'s friend
[Eidolon García](Eidolon_García "Eidolon García"){.wikilink} arrives
when Anna attempts to \"bite a piece\" out of Janet in revenge. As they
are no longer in the prime timeline, Anna struggles with her
displacement into this world, and looks for Mabel without regard for
anything or anyone. As she tells Mabel about what\'s happening through
voicemails similar to season one, she and the other two women decide to
perform a ritual in an attempt to summon Mabel. It fails, and Anna
remains stuck in the wrong timeline.[^26]

## Physical Description {#physical_description}

Anna is an indigenous Mexican woman. She is short (though, and this is
crucial, she is taller than Mabel[^27]) and fat. She has brown curly
hair and brown eyes.[^28]

The creators of the show have specifically stated that they do not care
how Anna and Mabel are portrayed, so long as neither of them are
portrayed as white.

## Canonical Appearance {#canonical_appearance}

Anna is the main character of the entire show. She is in or mentioned in
almost every episode.

## Trivia

- As a kid, Anna was scared of the dark.
- Anna owned a cat pre-moving in with Sally.
- She is both older and taller than Mabel, though in both cases not by
  much.
- She enjoyed the podcast 99% Invisible and the show The Moomins.
- She is canonically a goth.
- Out of the two girls, Anna would be the vampire, and Mabel would be
  the werewolf.
- Anna\'s worst fear is her own life being meaninglessly mundane.
- She cries when she\'s scared or angry.
- She was close with her father before his death, presumably when she
  was a teenager. He gave her a bracelet she later turned into a
  knife/scalpel.
- Her mother\'s maiden name is Madrigal.
- She would canonically \"fight to the death for a good bean burrito.\"
  She also likes vegetarian sushi.

[^1]: [Episode One: The
    Letters](Episode_One:_The_Letters "Episode One: The Letters"){.wikilink}

[^2]: [Episode Two: Really
    Red](Episode_Two:_Really_Red "Episode Two: Really Red"){.wikilink}

[^3]: [Episode Two: Really
    Red](Episode_Two:_Really_Red "Episode Two: Really Red"){.wikilink}

[^4]: [Episode Three: The Man in the
    Street](Episode_Three:_The_Man_in_the_Street "Episode Three: The Man in the Street"){.wikilink}

[^5]: [Episode Four:
    Datura](Episode_Four:_Datura "Episode Four: Datura"){.wikilink}

[^6]: [Episode Four Point Five: The
    Message](Episode_Four_Point_Five:_The_Message "Episode Four Point Five: The Message"){.wikilink}

[^7]: [Episode Five: Fairy
    Hill](Episode_Five:_Fairy_Hill "Episode Five: Fairy Hill"){.wikilink}

[^8]: [Episode Six:
    Vanished](Episode_Six:_Vanished "Episode Six: Vanished"){.wikilink}

[^9]: [Episode Ten: Home
    Again](Episode_Ten:_Home_Again "Episode Ten: Home Again"){.wikilink}

[^10]: [Episode Eleven:
    Pilgrimage](Episode_Eleven:_Pilgrimage "Episode Eleven: Pilgrimage"){.wikilink}

[^11]: [Episode Twelve:
    Asterion](Episode_Twelve:_Asterion "Episode Twelve: Asterion"){.wikilink}

[^12]: [Episode Thirteen:
    Thomas](Episode_Thirteen:_Thomas "Episode Thirteen: Thomas"){.wikilink}

[^13]: [Episode Fourteen:
    Legacy](Episode_Fourteen:_Legacy "Episode Fourteen: Legacy"){.wikilink}

[^14]: [Episode Sixteen:
    Underworld](Episode_Sixteen:_Underworld "Episode Sixteen: Underworld"){.wikilink}

[^15]: [Episode Twenty-Three: Bull in the
    Maze](Episode_Twenty-Three:_Bull_in_the_Maze "Episode Twenty-Three: Bull in the Maze"){.wikilink}

[^16]: [Episode Twenty-Four:
    Coalescence](Episode_Twenty-Four:_Coalescence "Episode Twenty-Four: Coalescence"){.wikilink}

[^17]: [Episode Twenty-Six: Danse
    Macabre](Episode_Twenty-Six:_Danse_Macabre "Episode Twenty-Six: Danse Macabre"){.wikilink}

[^18]: [Episode Twenty-Nine: Aurora Silver is Willing to
    Wait](Episode_Twenty-Nine:_Aurora_Silver_is_Willing_to_Wait "Episode Twenty-Nine: Aurora Silver is Willing to Wait"){.wikilink}

[^19]: [Episode Thirty: The
    Consort](Episode_Thirty:_The_Consort "Episode Thirty: The Consort"){.wikilink}

[^20]: [Episode Thirty: The
    Consort](Episode_Thirty:_The_Consort "Episode Thirty: The Consort"){.wikilink}

[^21]: [Episode Thirty-One: The King
    Speaks](Episode_Thirty-One:_The_King_Speaks "Episode Thirty-One: The King Speaks"){.wikilink}

[^22]: [Episode Thirty-Two: Temporal
    Snake](Episode_Thirty-Two:_Temporal_Snake "Episode Thirty-Two: Temporal Snake"){.wikilink}

[^23]: [Episode Thirty-Three:
    Primogeniture](Episode_Thirty-Three:_Primogeniture "Episode Thirty-Three: Primogeniture"){.wikilink}

[^24]: [Episode Thirty-Four: Reactionary
    Politics](Episode_Thirty-Four:_Reactionary_Politics "Episode Thirty-Four: Reactionary Politics"){.wikilink}

[^25]: [Episode Forty: The Deterritorialization Of
    Time](Episode_Forty:_The_Deterritorialization_Of_Time "Episode Forty: The Deterritorialization Of Time"){.wikilink}

[^26]: [Episode Forty-Eight: Saturn Devours His
    Children](Episode_Forty-Eight:_Saturn_Devours_His_Children "Episode Forty-Eight: Saturn Devours His Children"){.wikilink}

[^27]: <https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/post/184649814393/any-idea-how-tall-the-girls-are-mabel-gives-off>

[^28]: <https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/post/187358445383/hello-i-just-have-a-quick-question-i-just>
