```{=mediawiki}
{{Location|title=El Segundo Academy|location=Unknown|inhabitants=[[Mabel Martin]], [[Callie]], [[Maribeth Parker]], [[James Barbicon]], [[Ricky]], [[Elizabeth Hook]], [[Talia Moore]]|mentioned in=test}}
```
El Segundo Academy was a \"cult school\" ran by [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink}. It is the focus of
the extra content site [What Happened At El
Segundo](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/).

## Background

El Segundo was a \"pseudo-therapeutic, borderline militaristic boarding
school\" in California. It was founded by Gertrude Edgeworth and
experienced several scandals surrounding the discipline used within the
school. This discipline apparently included solitary confinement, hard
manual labor, and getting their heads shaved.[^1]

## 2001-2003

Between 2001 and 2002, the number of students at ESA went from 97 to 46.
All the girls were moved into two 20-person dorms, and the overcrowding
led to more fighting among the student body. A girl named Elizabeth
Hook, a former ESA student, was discovered in the Tahoe National Forest
by a sophomore from ESA. Her boyfriend, a cocaine dealer named Louis Van
Straaten, was charged with her murder.

In September, the music department was flooded unexpectedly, seeing as
there was no body of water that could have done the flooding. In
October, 27 students were trapped in Meredith dormitory by over 30 wild
foxes. Police were called, but the foxes dispesed when an unknown
student walked through the circle unharmed.

On November 1st, the ESA chefs found every egg they had to be full of
stones. The next day ([Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}\'s birthday), part of
the school building collapsed. Students began to faint in the morning
assembly consistently.

On December 19th, the school\'s director, [Ron
Newman](Ron_Newman "Ron Newman"){.wikilink}, disappeared. Six
rattlesnakes were found in his office. He was found on December 24,
incoherent and shirtless, covered in black mud. He never recovered from
his ordeal.

The three students who had stayed behind during winter break were snowed
in by a blizzard on December 25. They were completely alone save for
Maribeth Parker. One of the girls who stayed ended up disappearing from
\"secluded cabin somewhere in the San Bernardino mountains\" not long
after ESA burned down.

Only 38 students returned to ESA after winter break, and they were all
stuck into one dorm (Meredith). They shared four to a room. Fighting and
punishments increased; by the time the class returned from spring break
in late March, only 26 girls were enrolled in El Segundo.

## April 3rd 2003 {#april_3rd_2003}

On April 3rd 2003 (exactly thirteen years after the disappearance of
Lily Martin, as said in
[Asterion](Episode_Twelve:_Asterion "Asterion"){.wikilink}), El
Segundo\'s main building burned down. Meredith dorm was flooded.
[Callie](Callie "Callie"){.wikilink} called the Jericho fire department
and two cops were sent to investigate the call, at which point a window
exploded with black smoke. Over half the students were injured; Maribeth
Parker disappeared for good.\

[^1]: [1](https://whathappenedatelsegundo.com/background)
