In which \[GARBLED DISTORTION\]. Featuring: a frightened neighbour, a
worried relative, a harbinger, and more.

**Episode description:** Mabel is back for season two! In this first
episode, some of the people around Mabel and Anna get their say.\
`{{Episode|title=Crossed Wires|partOfSeason=2|episodeNumber=9|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]]|airDate=Jan 30, 2017|nextEpisode=[[Episode Ten: Home Again | Home Again]]|performed by=Nicola Kavanagh, Cara De La Rosa, Jane Barron, Jen Barron, Catya Winter, and Lane Lloyd.|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Eight Point Five: Letter From Juniper | Letter From Juniper]]}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

Various others in the community discuss the disappearance of [Anna
Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink}. Old friends try to get in
touch with [Mabel Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink}.
[Monica Jenkins](Monica_Jenkins "Monica Jenkins"){.wikilink} tries to
call her sister.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Hauntings, paranoia/fear, missing persons, loud noises, police,
  distortion.\

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

The episode starts with a neighbor of the Martin house, Clara, calling
her friend Nola. Through the entire episode, Clara yells at Nola for not
coming over; she gets scared at night by herself, and Nola was meant to
come stay with her. Clara hears strange singing and sees a woman with
sharp teeth in the attic window of the Martin house, making threatening
gestures (hello, Mabel, hello, hello) at her and laughing. Besides
Clara, other voicemails also come in\-- several from Mona, Anna\'s
sister, trying to get her to pick up her phone; eventually, a cop,
Officer Jameson, calls Anna to check in. Doctor Yulia Antonova, from the
hospital Sally stayed at, calls Anna to have a chat. Lastly, one of
Mabel\'s old friends, Lauren, and her sister, Justine, call Mabel to try
to see if she wants to catch up, as they\'re in town for their mutual
friend Takao\'s wedding. The last part of the episode includes strange
singing and two (ridiculous dweeb) girls laughing.\
==Continuity== **`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains
spoilers for later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own
risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- Yulia is probably calling concerning Sally\'s death.
- [Monica Jenkins](Monica_Jenkins "Monica Jenkins"){.wikilink} is
  Anna\'s sister and will be mentioned a few more times in the series.

\
==Trivia== `<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains
spoilers for later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own
risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- Justine and Lauren mention someone named Korina, presumably Mabel\'s
  ex-girlfriend.
- Lauren says they can go get coffee; this may be a very tiny nod to
  them not knowing much about Mabel at all, because she doesn\'t drink
  coffee.[^1]
- Mona asks for someone named Patrick to help her; presumably, this is
  her partner, and possibly [Aaron
  Jenkins](Aaron_Jenkins "Aaron Jenkins"){.wikilink}\'s father.

\

[^1]: [Episode Thirty-Nine:
    Reverie](Episode_Thirty-Nine:_Reverie "Episode Thirty-Nine: Reverie"){.wikilink}
