In which the saint speaks.

**Episode description:** *Warning: this episode is
haunted.*`{{Episode|title=Bull in the Maze|partOfSeason=3|episodeNumber=23|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]]|airDate=July 17, 2017|nextEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Four: Coalescence | Coalescence]]|performed by=Becca De La Rosa, Mabel Martin|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Episode Twenty-Two: Eternal Return | Eternal Return]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

Saint [Anna](Anna_Lim√≥n "Anna"){.wikilink}, pray for us sinners, now and
at the hour of our deaths.

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Gore, mental spiral, grief, colonization, mentions of death.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

Anna makes her return, mimicking her own voice from season one in order
to attempt to play a trick on Mabel. She mentions that Mabel\'s voice
(from her voicemails) has gotten stuck in her head, to the point where
she cannot physically claw Mabel out of her ears. Even through her
anger, she still says that she Needs Mabel, that Mabel is her antithesis
which defines her. She then tells a story about the land the Martin
House was built on\-- the land and the House resenting each other, the
House eventually becoming bitter:

*\"So the house said,* stay*. The house said,* mine*. The house said,*
no more; I am staking my claim; this is my family and I have a right to
them, and if they leave me they will leave bereft, for I am the house on
the hill and this is my final testament. *And under the house, in the
land below the land, the king said --\"*

Anna talks about her changeling, saying that she was doing a better job
at being human than Anna ever did. She talks about the
[King](The_King "King"){.wikilink}, explaining how he changes\-- based
on the seasons, he lives and die throughout the cycles of the year.
Lastly, she finally tells Mabel that she loves her too, and then
commands her (all king-like) to never, ever leave her.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- The King as his \"winter\" self is his primary form throughout season
  four.
- [Veratrine](Veratrine "Veratrine"){.wikilink} being a better
  \'person\' than Anna is positions her to be the best at pretending to
  be human amongst the irreverent miscreants\-- Anna being a better
  \'person\' than Mabel is is canonical as of
  [Coalescence](Episode_Twenty-Four:_Coalescence "Coalescence"){.wikilink}.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- The piece of code hidden in the transcript from this episode is
  \"**in**.\"
- There is no \"featuring\" portion in this episode.

\
