In which one corner of the puzzle reveals itself. Featuring: a
near-admission, a treasure hunt, a little self.

**Episode description:** This [girl](Tressa_Davies "girl"){.wikilink}
tells
stories.`{{Episode|title=Invocation|partOfSeason=5|episodeNumber=IM-4|writer=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|airDate=???|nextEpisode=[[Infinity Mirror Part Five: Remember the Mourning Dove | Remember the Mourning Dove]]|performed by=[[Becca De La Rosa]], [[Maybell Marten]]|Trancript=https://mabelpodcast.com/transcripts|previousEpisode=[[Infinity Mirror Part Three: You and Me and the Devil Makes Three | You and Me and the Devil Makes Three]]|image=|imagecaption=|director=}}`{=mediawiki}

## Episode Overview {#episode_overview}

*Here there be monsters.*

#### **Trigger Warnings** {#trigger_warnings}

- Unreality, loud noise, anxiety attacks, distortion, screaming,
  torture, ableism, death.

## Episode Summary {#episode_summary}

Directly after the phone call from \"Becca and Mabel,\" Tressa Loses Her
Goddamn Mind, repeating that she\'s too old to be thrown into an
adventure like this; in stories, it only happens to children. After
reasoning through what\'s happening to her (*\"I am trapped. In a house.
That might belong to a podcaster's grandmother, and might be. A fucking.
Faerie house from a story. Either someone is playing a - Jesus, an
incredibly detailed and, and complicated joke on me, or. I was talking
to two. Characters. Who shouldn't even -\"*), she decides to attempt to
physically map out the house.

The house traps her in a loop of three rooms: The kitchen, the dining
room, and the Green Parlor, meaning she cannot map the entire place out.
After getting into a fight with the House over the loop, she sits down
in the dining room, where she looks at her instruction paper again. It
asks her who Lara Ouvriers is. Tressa explains that her mom died when
Tressa was six, and since her father couldn\'t take care of her due to
working at Amtrak, she ended up getting sent to [Lang Primary
Conservatory for the
Disabled](Lang_Primary_Conservatory_for_the_Disabled "Lang Primary Conservatory for the Disabled"){.wikilink},
which she mentions was once referred to as Lang Primary Conservatory for
Crippled Children; this is presumably meant to symbolize the act of
covering up less-than-pristine history. Lara Ouvriers was her principal,
who she describes as looking exactly like [Aurora
Silver](Aurora_Silver "Aurora Silver"){.wikilink}\'s description from [
The Consort](Episode_Thirty:_The_Consort " The Consort"){.wikilink}.

Tressa says that after she took the ring from Larissa, she began getting
called into Lara\'s office, where the woman would ask her strange
questions. She eventually witnessed the cult sacrificing the Mourning
Dove in an attempt to summon the King of the Underhill. The paper tells
her to head to the Green Parlor, where she finds a dollhouse of the
House, with a miniature figure of herself inside.

## Continuity

**`<small>`{=html}Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.`</small>`{=html}**

- The dollhouse was based on one Tressa owned in childhood.
- The Mourning Dove being a child seems to match with Mabel being called
  \"the starling\" by the Court.

## Trivia

`<small>`{=html}**Please note that this section contains spoilers for
later episodes of Mabel. Continue at your own risk.**`</small>`{=html}

- tressa davies u mystify me
