```{=mediawiki}
{{Character|name=Lily Martin|species=???|relatives=[[Sally Martin]] (Mother)

[[Esau]] (Father)<br>[[Juniper]] (Ex-girlfriend)<br>[[Thomas]] (Ex-boyfriend)<br>[[Mabel Martin]] (Daughter)|affiliation=Herself|occupation=Former Alchemist|image=Lilyghost.jpeg|imagecaption=art by carlie|aliases=|marital=|birthDate=|birthPlace=|deathDate=|deathPlace=|gender=|height=|weight=|eyes=|portrayedby=|appearsin=|debut=}}
```
<center>

*I can't just leave, I said. I can't just go.*\

</center>

\
Lily Martin was an antagonist in *Mabel.* She has no known voice
actress. Please be warned that this page contains discussion of abuse.\

## Seasons One-Six {#seasons_one_six}

Lily Martin was the daughter of [Sally
Martin](Sally_Martin "Sally Martin"){.wikilink} and
[Esau](Esau "Esau"){.wikilink}. In her teenage years, she was in love
with a faerie named [Juniper](Juniper "Juniper"){.wikilink}, who she met
in a field; Juniper fell in love with her when she laughed. However,
they did not end up staying together, their relationship ending with
Juniper predicting her death. Later on, she had a brief fling with a man
named [Thomas](Thomas_Ortega "Thomas"){.wikilink} that resulted in
[Mabel Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink} being born. She
was abusive to Mabel. At some point she saw Mabel as she truly was
(complicated\-- possibly a changeling, possibly she just saw [Luna
Thorne](Luna_Thorne "Luna Thorne"){.wikilink})[^1]. She died with broken
bones in her throat[^2] when Mabel was four. Mabel has her last name
rather than Thomas\'s.

It is canon that Lily wore lilies in her hair as a teenager, according
to *Letter from Juniper*. It is also canon that she was a [dabbler in
alchemy.](https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/post/650194294016294912/hello-hello-i-have-been-trying-with-little-luck)

Lily kept a journal detailing much of her life as a teenager. The
journal is described as a \"leather-bound spiral notebook\" by
[Anna](Anna_Lim√≥n "Anna"){.wikilink} in Episode 8: The Freeze when she
finds the journal on the kitchen counter. It is stuffed with clippings
from old magazines, including one from a Virginia Slims ad that says,
\"You\'ve come a long way, baby.\" Instead of a name on the back of the
front cover, Anna finds a picture of roses from Sally\'s garden. In the
journal, Lily describes a dream she had from the perspective of a bird.
When explaining why she hesitated to run away with Juniper, one of her
reasons for staying was that her friend, Jo, would be waiting for her at
the bus stop. The journal also includes in its pages a drawing of the
alchemical symbol for mercury. This symbol was tied back to the Hand of
Mysteries by Mabel Martin and Becca De La Rosa during a live event where
Mabel Martin mentioned that the Hand of Mysteries might be a good avenue
of research as it contained \"pictorial references.\"

## Season Seven {#season_seven}

Sally Martin completed a ritual called \"On The Basis of Exchange\"
before Lily was born in order to clone her older brother, [Phillip
Martin](Phillip_Martin "Phillip Martin"){.wikilink}, and rebirth him.
This clone ended up being Lily herself.

Lily is heard talking to Mabel during an unknown time period in [Ashes,
Ashes](Episode_Forty-Four:_Ashes,_Ashes "Ashes, Ashes"){.wikilink}. It
sounds like she is saying \"it is my house\-- it was always my house,
you need to leave.\"\

[^1]: [Episode Thirty-Five:
    Delirium](Episode_Thirty-Five:_Delirium "Episode Thirty-Five: Delirium"){.wikilink}

[^2]: [Episode Eight:
    Freeze](Episode_Eight:_Freeze "Episode Eight: Freeze"){.wikilink}
