A meta-narrative is defined as \"a narrative account that experiments
with or explores the idea of storytelling, often by *drawing attention
to its own artificiality*.\" In the world of *Mabel*, this is primarily
used to focus upon the [voice](Becca_De_La_Rosa "voice"){.wikilink}
[actors](Maybell_Marten "actors"){.wikilink} of both [Anna
Limón](Anna_Limón "Anna Limón"){.wikilink} and [Mabel
Martin](Mabel_Martin "Mabel Martin"){.wikilink} being Anna and Mabel
themselves, leaving the separation of \"our world\" and \"Anna and
Mabel\'s world\" to be nonexistent. This is a primary plot point of
[Infinity Mirror](Infinity_Mirror "Infinity Mirror"){.wikilink}, wherein
Becca De La Rosa and Maybell Marten outright state that they are Anna
and Mabel to the main character of the mini-season, [Tressa
Davies](Tressa_Davies "Tressa Davies"){.wikilink}. The meta-narrative is
further developed by Tressa sharing a first name with her
[actress](Tressa_Evans-Salvemini "actress"){.wikilink}, and [Monica
Jenkins](Monica_Jenkins "Monica Jenkins"){.wikilink} being played by the
actual sister of Anna\'s actress.

Some other significant points towards this being a tale of one world,
rather than two, include:

- Maybell Marten being referred to as \"the [girl in the
  mirror](Luna_Thorne "girl in the mirror"){.wikilink}\" until the
  reveal of their name.
- Maybell Marten stating that she also attended a boarding school in her
  teenage years.
- The creators stating numerous times that Mabel is a true story.

This narrative will presumably be explored in season seven, as Infinity
Mirror\'s purging from the internet has been
[stated](https://mabelpodcast.tumblr.com/post/629256683119656960/if-its-okay-to-ask-is-infinity-mirror-okay-did)
to be a factor within the new season.
